That is, we want to find pairs of stocks whose ratio of prices diverges and converges in a consistent manner.

There are two main ways we can go about trying to this.

We can look directly for divergence / convergence effects in historical prices (assuming these effects will continue in the future)
We can look for fundamental economic drivers of this kind of behaviour.

However, our linear backtest feature doesn’t have enough signal in it to justify such an exercise.

That would be like splitting our factor plots into 2,000 different buckets and picking the top one.

We can combine features together and, to the extent that they are somewhat uncorrelated, this will help us isolate the signal in our pairs selection process.

One feature that can help us discriminate between good pairs trading candidates is the log difference in market capitalisation. 

Pairs with very close market cap differences (decile 1) don’t do a huge amount better than average.
But the very biggest differences (decile 10) do quite poorly.
So this feature would be useful to us in this example, if our shortlist of pairs (that we got from the top x% by historic risk-adjusted backtest returns) contained some pairs that sit down here in the top decile by market cap difference.

That’s the benefit of feature stacking.

Instead of picking arbitrarily from one feature, we can use features which are slightly uncorrelated to reduce our shortlist in a manner which maximizes expected value.

We can do this with time series features too.

A simple example is to look at the same feature over different lookbacks.

In our example, we picked the top 2% by our risk-adjusted linear backtest feature over some lookback period. That yielded 20,000 pair candidates.

But we ideally want to select pairs that have been relatively stable across a range of lookback periods. So we might choose to select only the pairs that appeared in the top 5% over 1, 2, 3 and 5 year lookbacks, for example.

Another example of feature stacking with time-series features would be to introduce entirely new time series features such as:

counting the number of times the spread crossed its moving average
summing the distance between normalised prices.